The US has temporarily closed its embassy in Kyiv after receiving warning of a “potential significant air attack”, advising American citizens to be prepared to move immediately to a shelter in the event of an air raid warning.

Such warnings are rare and likely to be based on specific intelligence. It comes amid reports that the US had approved the provision of anti-personnel landmines to Ukraine – a further step after Washington granted Kyiv permission to use long-range missiles inside Russia.

The embassy said the alert applied to all of Ukraine and advised people to monitor the media for updates. It added: “The US embassy in Kyiv has received specific information of a potential significant air attack on November 20.

“Out of an abundance of caution, the embassy will be closed, and embassy employees are being instructed to shelter in place. The US embassy recommends US citizens be prepared to immediately shelter in the event an air alert is announced.”

The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said Moscow would respond “appropriately” a day after Ukraine fired six of the newly approved US-made Atacms missiles into an ammunition warehouse in the south-western Bryansk region.

Hours earlier, the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, signed a revised nuclear doctrine lowering the threshold for using nuclear weapons amid warnings from Russian MPs that the US action was bringing “world war three” closer.

Overnight, the Pentagon said it had seen no sign that Russia was planning to use a nuclear weapon in Ukraine, and accused Russian politicians of engaging in irresponsible rhetoric.

“We’re going to continue to monitor, but we don’t have any indications that Russia is preparing to use a nuclear weapon within Ukraine,” said the Pentagon spokesperson Sabrina Singh.

Overnight in Kyiv there had been intermittent air raid alerts but no major incidents. A fire in an apartment block that was feared to have been caused by debris from a falling drone was in fact caused by a domestic appliance.

Biden’s approval of the provision of anti-personnel landmines to Ukraine, a US official said, was a step that could help slow Russian advances in the east of the country, especially when used with other munitions from the US.

The US expects Ukraine to use the mines in its own territory, though it has committed not to use them in areas populated with its own civilians, the official said.